# Software Designed
Software design is the only tool that we have to try to constrain entropy. As briefly as I can, here is how I landed there: Computers are state machines. There is a wide variety of state transitions that are permitted by the computer, the set of allowable state transitions is the instruction set. The number of possible states and the number of possible state transitions is each so large that both of them are effectively infinite. In other words, the system is unconstrained. The unconstrained nature of the machine makes it a very powerful tool because it can be used to represent a very wide variety of problems. However, for a specific problem only a vanishingly small number of machine states is valid. A bug causes the system transition to a random invalid state (random in the sense that the bug can cause any state transition allowed by the instruction set). Over time, bugs move the state of the system further and further toward the most common states and away from the small number of valid states. In other words, bugs raise the entropy of the system state. Software design puts rules in place that constrain the allowable state transitions to a set small enough for a human to understand. Having such constraints makes the problem easier to understand and also makes bugs (violations of the constraints) easier to identify and understand.

From this I define Sofware Design (as a verb) to fundamentally be the process of creating a set of constraints that serve to reduce the scope of the problem within a given context by restricting the set of valid state transitions available to the software developer.
